docs(adr): ADR-005: Support multisig chain link (#634)
desmos-labs/desmos: docs/architecture/adr-006-support-multisig-chain-link.md

The whole process in code is presented below:
```go
// getChainLinkJSONFromMultiSign generates the chain-link JSON from the multisign file and its raw transaction file
func getChainLinkJSONFromMultiSign(
	cmd *cobra.Command,
	txFile string,
	chainID string,
	chain chainlinktypes.Chain,
) (profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON, error) {
	clientCtx, err := client.GetClientTxContext(cmd)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	parsedTx, err := authclient.ReadTxFromFile(clientCtx, txFile)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	txCfg := clientCtx.TxConfig
	txBuilder, err := txCfg.WrapTxBuilder(parsedTx)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	txFactory := tx.NewFactoryCLI(clientCtx, cmd.Flags())
	if txFactory.SignMode() == signingtypes.SignMode_SIGN_MODE_UNSPECIFIED {
		txFactory = txFactory.WithSignMode(signingtypes.SignMode_SIGN_MODE_LEGACY_AMINO_JSON)
	}

	sigs, err := txBuilder.GetTx().GetSignaturesV2()

> 	if len(sigs) != 1 {

Author: It can work properly. It makes sure that the multisigned tx file result has only one multi-signature data to generate Proof.

> 	if len(sigs) != 1 {

Author: @bragaz It can work properly. It makes sure that the multisigned tx file result has only one multi-signature data to generate Proof.

- October 21th, 2021: Proposed
- October 21th, 2021: First Review
- October 22th, 2021: Second Review

## Status

PROPOSED

## Abstract

Currently, it is not possible to create a chain link using a multisig account. Since many validators MIGHT use multisig accounts, we SHOULD change the `Proof` type and its `Verify` function in order to support this kind of account as well.

## Context

Currently, the `x/profiles` module gives users the possibility to link their profile to different external accounts. 
In particular, to link other blockchains accounts to a profile, we follow this process:
1. the user signs a message with their own private key;
2. the signature and the signed value are placed inside a `Proof` object;
3. Desmos verifies the `Proof` object to guarantee that the user really owns such account and thus it can be linked successfully to their Desmos profile.

Currently, this process works properly for single-signature accounts, but it does not support multi-signature accounts. This is due to the fact that the `Proof` type only supports signatures made by a single-signature account, and its `Verify` function is only able to verify such signature type.

## Decision

> We propose to change the `Signature` of `Proof` into be 
> [SignatureDescriptor_Data](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/proto/cosmos/tx/signing/v1beta1/signing.proto#L57) instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We propose to change the `Proof#Signature` field to be of type [`SignatureDescriptor_Data`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/proto/cosmos/tx/signing/v1beta1/signing.proto#L57).
```

### Proof implementation

> `SignatureDescriptor_Data` supports to store both single and multi signatures. Moreover, it has a 
> [function](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/tx/signing/signature.go#L65) 
> to convert to [SignatureData](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/tx/signing/signature_data.go#L10), 
> which is helpful to the signature verification in `Verify` function. The verification process will be like:
> 1. If it's a `SingleSignatureData`, make sure the account public key is a cryptotypes. `PubKey` and 
> then use the `VerifySignature` method to verify the signature.
> 2. If it's a `MultiSignatureData`, make sure the account public key is a `multisig.PubKey` and 
> then use the `VerifyMultisignature` method to verify the signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SignatureDescriptor_Data` supports storing both single and multi-sig signatures. Moreover, the Cosmos SDK provides a [function](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/tx/signing/signature.go#L65) to convert such type into the corresponding interface ([`SignatureData`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/tx/signing/signature_data.go#L10)), which is required from the `Verify` function in order to validate such signature. 

The verification process can then be implemented as follows:
1. If it's a `SingleSignatureData`, make sure the account public key is a cryptotypes. `PubKey` and 
then use the `VerifySignature` method to verify the signature.
2. If it's a `MultiSignatureData`, make sure the account public key is a `multisig.PubKey` and 
then use the `VerifyMultisignature` method to verify the signature.
```

> The whole process in code will be like:

Reviewer: I think the code below can be safely deleted since we are already describing above how things are implemented anyway

// It returns an error if something is invalid.
func (p Proof) Verify(cdc codec.BinaryCodec, address AddressData) error {
	value, _ := hex.DecodeString(p.PlainText)
	var pubkey cryptotypes.PubKey

	switch sigData := (signing.SignatureDataFromProto(p.Signature)).(type) {
	case *signing.SingleSignatureData:
		err := cdc.UnpackAny(p.PubKey, &pubkey)
		if err != nil {
			return fmt.Errorf("failed to unpack the public key")
		}
		if !pubkey.VerifySignature(value, sigData.Signature) {
			return fmt.Errorf("failed to verify the signature")
		}

	case *signing.MultiSignatureData:
		var multiPubkey multisig.PubKey
		err := cdc.UnpackAny(p.PubKey, &multiPubkey)
		if err != nil {
			return fmt.Errorf("failed to unpack the public key")
		}
		if err := multiPubkey.VerifyMultisignature(
			func(mode signing.SignMode) ([]byte, error) {
				return value, nil
			},
			sigData,
		); err != nil {
			return err
		}
		pubkey = multiPubkey
	}

	valid, err := address.VerifyPubKey(pubkey)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	if !valid {
		return fmt.Errorf("invalid address and public key combination provided")
	}
	return nil
}
```

### CLI implementation

> We propose to use an interactive prompt to create a new chain-link JSON for both single signature and multi signature account. For the single signature account, the process
> will remain the same as before. For the multi signature account, we will add the new feature beyond the remained interactive prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We propose to use an interactive prompt to create a new chain-link JSON for both single signature and multi signature account. For the single signature account, the process will remain the same as before. For the multi signature account, we will add the new feature beyond the remained interactive prompt.
```

> ```go

Reviewer: I think this code can be safely deleted as well

					return err
				}
			}
			cmd.Println(fmt.Sprintf("Chain link JSON file stored at %s", filename))
			return nil
		},
	}
	cmd.Flags().String(flags.FlagChainID, "", "network chain ID")
	return cmd
} 

// createSingleSigAccountChainLinkJSON creates the chain-link JSON for single signature account via getter
func createSingleSigChainLinkJSON(
	getter chainlinktypes.ChainLinkReferenceGetter
) (profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON, error) {
	mnemonic, err := getter.GetMnemonic()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	chain, err := getter.GetChain()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	return generateChainLinkJSON(mnemonic, chain)
}

// createMultiSigChainLinkJSON creates the chain-link JSON for multi signature account via getter
func createMultiSigChainLinkJSON(
	cmd *cobra.Command, getter chainlinktypes.ChainLinkReferenceGetter
)(profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON, error) {

	txFile, err := getter.GetTxFile()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	multisignFile, err := getter.GetMultiSignFile()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	chainID, err := getter.GetChainID()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	return getChainLinkJSONFromMultiSign(
		cmd,
		txFile,
		multiSign, 
		chain,
	)
}
```

> We propose to create chain-link JSON from the multisign file. In cosmos-sdk, multisig account transaction signing depends on `tx sign` and 
> `tx multisign` commands. To send a transaction to the node, the multisig account owners should create a raw transaction file, then the threshold 
> number of them sign it to generate the signed files by using the `tx sign` command with their keys. Subsequently, one of them gathers all the signed 
> files and uses the `tx multisign` command with the raw transaction file to get the multisign file. The multisign file includes not only all public keys 
> and threshold of the multisig account but also the required number of signatures so that creating the chain-link JSON from the multisign file is possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify things for multisig accounts, we propose to create a chain link JSON starting from a transaction signed with a multisig account. Inside the Cosmos SDK, multisig account transactions signing depends on the `tx sign` and 
`tx multisign` commands. To send a transaction to the node, the following process takes place: 
1. the multisig account owners create a raw transaction file
2. the threshold number of signers sign it to using the `tx sign` command
3. all individual signatures are gathered and used as input to the `tx multisign` the signed transaction. 

The multisign file includes not only all public keys and threshold of the multisig account, but also the required number of signatures. Thanks to this, we can leverage all the information stored inside such file to create a proper chain link JSON starting from a multisigned transaction.
```

The whole process in code is presented below:
```go
// getChainLinkJSONFromMultiSign generates the chain-link JSON from the multisign file and its raw transaction file
func getChainLinkJSONFromMultiSign(
	cmd *cobra.Command,
	txFile string,
	multiSignFile string,
	chainID string,
	chain chainlinktypes.Chain,
) (profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON, error) {
	clientCtx, err := client.GetClientTxContext(cmd)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	parsedTx, err := authclient.ReadTxFromFile(clientCtx, txFile)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	parsedMultiTx, err := authclient.ReadTxFromFile(clientCtx, multiSignFile)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err

> 	}

Reviewer: Why is it necessary to have two different files? Can't we simply use the signed transaction file?

Author: Because the raw tx file is the plaintext of the multisigned file.

Author: @RiccardoM Because the raw tx file is the plaintext of the multisigned file.

Reviewer: @dadamu Can we have an example of contents for both files? I would like to better understand this

Author: @RiccardoM To generate a multisign file, the process is as the follows:
1. One of signers creates the unsigned tx file as plain text, the unsigned  tx file is like:
```JSON
{
    "body": {
        "messages": [
            {
                "@type": "/cosmos.gov.v1beta1.MsgVote",
                "proposal_id": "1",
                "voter": "desmos140r08h3y5he52eg7xckf2uuldweekjz536lada",
                "option": "VOTE_OPTION_YES"
            }
        ],
        "memo": "",
        "timeout_height": "0",
        "extension_options": [],
        "non_critical_extension_options": []
    },
    "auth_info": {
        "signer_infos": [],
        "fee": {
            "amount": [],
            "gas_limit": "200000",
            "payer": "",
            "granter": ""
        }
    },
    "signatures": []
}
```

2. The threshold number of signers sign the unsigned tx file to generate signed tx files, the signed tx file is as the follows:
```JSON
{
    "signatures": [
        {
            "public_key": {
                "@type": "/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey",
                "key": "AhpowBmBeBIdMnkO0Mu0MgkrL3j9PRkqRu7INXnUx6/+"
            },
            "data": {
                "single": {
                    "mode": "SIGN_MODE_LEGACY_AMINO_JSON",
                    "signature": "iejF2C2/ITAjGqJkw90Zt0aFVzOzpnmi6cETKqoFJHg+6GMhdW8xFEXthfSa9AbdyjAJZN1P9PsO8srL6qp4eg=="
                }
            },
            "sequence": "0"
        }
    ]
}
```

3.  Use multisign command gathered all signatures of signed tx files then building multisigned_file from the unsigned tx file, the multisigned_file is as below:
```JSON
{
    "body": {
        "messages": [
            {
                "@type": "/cosmos.gov.v1beta1.MsgVote",
                "proposal_id": "1",
                "voter": "desmos140r08h3y5he52eg7xckf2uuldweekjz536lada",
                "option": "VOTE_OPTION_YES"
            }
        ],
        "memo": "",
        "timeout_height": "0",
        "extension_options": [],
        "non_critical_extension_options": []
    },
    "auth_info": {
        "signer_infos": [
            {
                "public_key": {
                    "@type": "/cosmos.crypto.multisig.LegacyAminoPubKey",
                    "threshold": 2,
                    "public_keys": [
                        {
                            "@type": "/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey",
                            "key": "AhpowBmBeBIdMnkO0Mu0MgkrL3j9PRkqRu7INXnUx6/+"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey",
                            "key": "Ax4ee7c3mJHeiv50SEDfbUe7GpT+li+BPepH3rBUP6it"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey",
                            "key": "A7juoEs01zEPSX1JmZvMz9HNOOiQqKLsfak7oygTztOD"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                "mode_info": {
                    "multi": {
                        "bitarray": {
                            "extra_bits_stored": 3,
                            "elems": "gA=="
                        },
                        "mode_infos": [
                            {
                                "single": {
                                    "mode": "SIGN_MODE_LEGACY_AMINO_JSON"
                                }
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                },
                "sequence": "0"
            }
        ],
        "fee": {
            "amount": [],
            "gas_limit": "200000",
            "payer": "",
            "granter": ""
        }
    },
    "signatures": [
        "CkCJ6MXYLb8hMCMaomTD3Rm3RoVXM7OmeaLpwRMqqgUkeD7oYyF1bzEURe2F9Jr0Bt3KMAlk3U/0+w7yysvqqnh6"
    ]
}
```

References: 
[multisign command](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/99e2e0f060b6675a449cd07147ca0bc96c577e56/x/auth/client/cli/tx_multisign.go#L72)
[tx sign command](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/2b02f066aae39cd2ece720e2616acf5b3308bf8e/x/auth/client/cli/tx_sign.go#L209)

Author: @RiccardoM Yeah, it might be possible to use only one file. Let me try a thing.

Author: @RiccardoM Confirmed, we can use multisigned_tx file only to create the proof.

	txCfg := clientCtx.TxConfig
	txBuilder, err := txCfg.WrapTxBuilder(parsedTx)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	multiTxBuilder, err := txCfg.WrapTxBuilder(parsedMultiTx)
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	txFactory := tx.NewFactoryCLI(clientCtx, cmd.Flags())
	if txFactory.SignMode() == signingtypes.SignMode_SIGN_MODE_UNSPECIFIED {
		txFactory = txFactory.WithSignMode(signingtypes.SignMode_SIGN_MODE_LEGACY_AMINO_JSON)
	}

	sigs, err := multiTxBuilder.GetTx().GetSignaturesV2()
	if len(sigs) != 1 {

> 		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, fmt.Errorf("invalid number of signature")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, fmt.Errorf("invalid number of signatures")
```

	}
	multisigSig := sigs[0]

	signingData := authSigning.SignerData{
		ChainID:       chainID,
		AccountNumber: txFactory.AccountNumber(),
		Sequence:      txFactory.Sequence(),
	}
	// the bytes of plain text
	value, err := txCfg.SignModeHandler().GetSignBytes(txFactory.SignMode(), signingData, txBuilder.GetTx())
	if err != nil {
		return profilescliutils.ChainLinkJSON{}, err
	}

	addr, _ := sdk.Bech32ifyAddressBytes(chain.Prefix, multisigSig.PubKey.Address().Bytes())
	return profilescliutils.NewChainLinkJSON(
		profilestypes.NewBech32Address(addr, chain.Prefix),
		profilestypes.NewProof(multisigSig.PubKey, signingtypes.SignatureDataToProto(multisigSig.Data), hex.EncodeToString(value)),
		profilestypes.NewChainConfig(chain.Name),
	), nil
}
```

## Consequences

### Backwards Compatibility

> We change `Signature` of `Proof` into `SignatureDescriptor_Data` from hex-encode string of signature bytes.
> This feature is not backwards compatible. Migrating the old chain link signature to `SignatureDescriptor_Data`
> is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we change the `Proof#Signature` field from a hex-encode string into a `SignatureDescriptor_Data`, this feature is not backwards compatible. Migrating the old chain link signatures to `SignatureDescriptor_Data`
is required.
```

### Positive

> * Give the possibility to link multisig account to desmos profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Give the possibility to link multisig account to desmos profile
```

### Negative

> * Raise the complexity to generate and verify the signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Raise the complexity to generate and verify the signature
```

### Neutral

(none known)

## Further Discussions

## Test Cases [optional]

The following tests cases MUST to be present:

> * Verify `Proof` including wrong format signature returns error
> * Verify `Proof` including non-matched single signature and pubkey returns error
> * Verify `Proof` including non-matched multi signatures and pubkeys returns error
> * Verify `Proof` including proper single signature and pubkey returns no error
> * Verify `Proof` including proper multi signatures and pubkeys returns no error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Verify `Proof` including wrong format signature returns error
- Verify `Proof` including non-matched single signature and pubkey returns error
- Verify `Proof` including non-matched multi signatures and pubkeys returns error
- Verify `Proof` including proper single signature and pubkey returns no error
- Verify `Proof` including proper multi signatures and pubkeys returns no error
```
